---------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER SOFTWARE RELEASE AND USAGE AGREEMENT
---------------------------------------------------------------------


This Agreement shall be used only in the event the Subject Software is
not provided to Recipient under any other agreement with the United
States, such as contract, grant or cooperative agreement.  Where
Software is provided by the United States under such other
agreement(s), this Agreement shall be void, and all matters concerning
the Subject Software will be subject only to the conditions of the
other agreement(s).  This Agreement may not be used in concert with
any other agreement.

The United States Government as represented by the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, Goddard Space Flight Center,
located at Greenbelt, MD 20771 (hereinafter Goddard), releases the
following computer software to Recipient:

Name:  Parallel Adaptive Mesh Refinement Library (PARAMESH)

Version:  3.0 (hereinafter Subject Software).

The Subject Software was developed under NASA Contracts/Grants
NAG5-2652 with George Mason University; NAS5-32350 with Raytheon/STX;
NAG5-6029 and NAG5-10026 with Drexel University; NAG5-9016 with the
University of Chicago; and NCC5-494 with GEST Institute.

Definitions: For purposes of this Agreement: i) software, as applied
to the Subject Software, means a collection of one or more programs or
micro-programs fixed in any tangible medium of expression that
comprises a sequence of instructions (source code) to carry out a
process in, or convertible into, a form executable by an electronic
computer (object code); ii) data, as used in this Agreement, means
recorded information, regardless of form, the media on which it may be
recorded, or the method of recording; iii) technical data is defined
as any specific information necessary for the development, production
or use of the Subject Software; and, iv) Works Based on the Subject
Software means either, (a) alone, any derivative work of the Subject
Software, as defined in the United States Copyright Act of 1976, as
amended, such as a translation or a modification, or, (b) including
both the Subject Software and any derivative works thereof but only
when both must be combined in order to use the derivative works.

Goddard hereby releases the Subject Software under the authority of
Section 203 of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, as
amended.

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of Goddard's releasing the Subject
Software to Recipient and granting Recipient the right to:

Use the Subject Software; Modify the Subject Software; Create Works
Based on the Subject Software; and Distribute copies of Works Based on
the Software throughout the world, in any medium;

subject to all of the terms of this Agreement and to any third party
intellectual property rights which may be applicable,

the Recipient and all further Recipients agree as follows:

1. Copyright to the Subject Software is held by the United States,
which Software may also include third party copyrighted software; all
copyright notices shall be included in all copies of the Subject
Software as well as in any Works Based on the Subject Software.  The
Subject Software is not in the public domain and nothing in this
Agreement shall be construed as making the Software available to the
public without restriction.  The Subject Software remains the property
of NASA and may be released by Recipient only in compliance with this
Agreement.

2. The Subject Software shall not be redistributed apart from a Work
Based on the Subject Software.

3. Works Based on the Subject Software shall be offered by Recipient,
without charge or other cost, to the United States.  Works Based on
the Subject Software may be used in contracts or other agreements with
the United States, but no charge may be made for such use.


4. The United States, NASA, and NASA affiliates, including but not
limited to contractors, subcontractors, grantees and other affiliates,
shall neither be liable nor responsible for any maintenance or
updating of the Subject Software, or for correction of any errors in
the Subject Software.

5.  Notwithstanding any provisions contained herein, Recipient is
hereby put on notice that export of any goods or technical data from
the United States may require some form of export license from the
United States.  Goddard neither represents that a license shall not be
required, nor that, if required, it shall be issued.  Nothing granted
herein to Recipient provides any such export license.

6.  The Subject Software is provided "as is" without any warranty of
any kind, whether expressed, implied, or statutory, including, but not
limited to, any warranty that the Subject Software will conform to
specifications, any implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for
a particular purpose, and freedom from infringement, and any warranty
that the documentation will conform to the software, or any warranty
that the Subject Software will be error free. This Agreement does not,
in any manner, constitute an endorsement by Goddard of any test
results, resulting designs, hardware, or other matters resulting from
use of the Subject Software.  Recipient shall not file any claim
against the United States for any matter concerning the Subject
Software, performance of, failure to perform, breach or other matter
related to, this Agreement.  Recipient?s sole remedy for any such
matter shall be the immediate, unilateral termination of this
Agreement.  The United States shall not be liable for any damage or
injury suffered by Recipient or its representatives, regardless of
cause, and Recipient hereby expressly waives any rights it might
otherwise have under the Federal Tort Claims Act or any other
authority, in consideration for Goddard's agreement to provide the
Subject Software under this Agreement.  Recipient under this section
includes any further Recipient to which Recipient provides the Subject
Software and/or Works Based on the Subject Software.

7. Recipient shall indemnify and hold harmless the United States from
any third party liability arising under the Federal Tort Claims Act or
any other authority, out of the Subject Software, or out of
performance of, or failure to perform, any aspect of this Agreement,
whether or not caused by the negligence, gross negligence or willful
misconduct of employees of the United States.  Recipient under this
section includes any further Recipient to which Recipient provides the
Subject Software and/or Works Based on the Subject Software.

8. This Agreement does not, in any manner, constitute an exclusive
release of the Subject Software to Recipient.  NASA?s distribution of
the Subject Software to other entities is in no manner limited by this
Agreement or any other Agreement between the parties.

9. Recipient must meet all of the following conditions with respect to
distribution or publication of any Works Based on the Subject Software
or any work that contains or is derived from the Subject Software or
any part thereof:


	(i) If Recipient modifies the Subject Software, Recipient must
cause the Works Based on the Subject Software to carry prominent
notices stating that Recipient has modified the Subject Software's
files and the date of any change.  In each source file that Recipient
has modified, Recipient must include a prominent notice that Recipient
has modified the file, including Recipient?s name, address, telephone
number and e-mail address (if any), and the date and purpose of the
change.


	(ii) If Recipient distributes Works Based on the Subject
Software, Recipient must cause the Works Based on the Subject Software
to be distributed as a whole and at no charge to all third parties.


        (iii) If the Work Based on the Subject Software normally reads
commands interactively when run, Recipient must cause it, at each time
the Work Based on the Subject Software commences operation, to print
or display an announcement including an appropriate copyright notice,
contract information and developers, and this entire Agreement as a
condition of using the Subject Software.

        (iv) Recipient must insure that all Subject Software and Works
Based on the Subject Software it distributes includes the terms of
this Agreement and that any further Recipient agrees to the terms of
this Agreement as part of any Recipient distribution.  Recipient shall
provide a written, semi-annual report to Goddard identifying all
further Recipients as required by the Goddard representative
designated hereunder.

	(v) If the Subject Software and/or any documentation provided
with the Subject Software includes a copyright notice, or other
restrictive marking or legend, identifying it as a work of a third
party, the third party software or documentation will be governed by
the terms and conditions of its copyright, or other restrictive
marking.  Goddard disclaims all warranties and liabilities regarding
third party software, if present in the Goddard-generated Subject
Software, and distributes it ?as is.?

	(vi) Recipient must accompany any Work Based on the Subject
Software with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code,
delivered on a medium customarily used for software interchange.  The
source code for a work means the preferred form of the Work Based on
the Subject Software for making modifications to it.  For an
executable work, complete source code means all the source code for
all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable code.  If Recipient distributes the Work Based on
the Subject Software with any component that is normally distributed
(in either source or binary form) with the major components (e.g.,
compiler, kernel) of the operating system on which the executable
runs, Recipient must also distribute the source code of that component
if Recipient has it and has the legal authority to do so.

	(vii) If distribution of executable or object code is made by
offering the equivalent ability to copy from a designated place,
offering equivalent ability to copy the source code from the same
place constitutes distribution of the source code, even though third
parties are not compelled to copy the source code along with the
object code.

	(viii) If Recipient distributes any written or printed
material at all with the Work Based on the Subject Software, such
material must include either a written copy of this Agreement or a
prominent written indication that the Work Based on the Subject
Software is covered by this Agreement, and must include written
instructions for printing and/or displaying the copy of the Agreement
on the distribution medium.

	(ix) Recipient hereby grants the United States an irrevocable,
non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide license in the modified or
enhanced version of the Subject Software to make, use, sell,
reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public,
and perform and display publicly and have others make use or sell, and
reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public,
and perform and display publicly, which shall be deemed to be in the
public domain for any user.  Recipient shall insure that this license
grant is applicable to further distribution of the Subject Software
and any Works based on the Subject Software.

	(x) Recipient and further Recipients may not impose any
further restrictions on further redistribution of the Subject Software
and any Works Based on the Subject Software exercise of the rights
granted herein.


10.  No rights are granted to the Subject Software except as expressly
set forth herein. This Agreement does not, in any manner, constitute
the grant of a license to Recipient under any NASA copyright, patent,
patent application or other intellectual property. Recipient and any
further Recipients may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the
Subject Software except as expressly provided under this Agreement.
Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the
Subject Software is void, and will automatically terminate Recipient's
rights under this Agreement.  However, parties who have received
copies, or rights, from Recipient under this Agreement will not have
their agreements terminated so long as such parties remain in full
compliance.

11.  Recipient may not make any representation in the Subject
Software, Works Based on the Subject Software, or in any promotional,
advertising, or other material which may be construed as an
endorsement by Goddard of any product or service provided by
Recipient, or which may seek to obtain commercial advantage by the
fact of Goddard's participation in this Agreement.  Recipient may
state the factual relationship with Goddard.

12.  Upon request of Goddard, Recipient and all further Recipients
will provide Goddard with the complete source code of Works Based on
the Subject Software.  Copies of corrected, modified, enhanced or
derivative versions of the Subject Software shall be sent to the
Goddard Space Flight Center Software Release Authority (name and
address listed in paragraph 14 herein).

13.  This Agreement may be terminated unilaterally by either party
upon 30 days advance written notice to the other party, except that
this Agreement may be terminated immediately without advance written
notice in the event of breach of any aspect of this Agreement.  Upon
termination, the Subject Software provided by Goddard shall be
returned.  The Agreement?s provisions shall remain in effect for any
further Recipient having received the Subject Software or Works Based
on the Subject Software from the Recipient, until such time as
specifically terminated against the Further Recipient by Goddard.
Upon termination, the Recipient shall provide a final listing of
further Recipients not previously reported to Goddard, with sufficient
detail to enable Goddard to identify and contact such Recipients.  All
liability provisions shall survive any termination by either party.

14.  Goddard hereby designates the Goddard Space Flight Center
Software Release Authority, Mail Code 504.0, Greenbelt, MD 20771,
telephone number 301-286-5810, as its representative for
implementation of this Agreement.

15. This Agreement shall be subject to United States federal law only,
for all purposes including, but not limited to, determining the
validity of this Agreement, the meaning of its provisions and the
rights, obligations and remedies of the parties.

16. This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding and agreement
between the parties hereto relating to release of the Subject Software
and may not be superseded, modified or amended except by further
written agreement duly executed by the parties.

17. All terms in this Agreement that apply to Recipient also apply to
all further Recipients of the Subject Software and Works Based on the
Subject Software, except to the extent expressly provided otherwise.

18. By accepting and using the software, the Recipient affirms that
he/she has authority to bind the Recipient to all terms and conditions
of this Agreement and that the Recipient hereby agrees to all terms
and conditions of this Agreement.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER SOFTWARE RELEASE AND USAGE AGREEMENT
---------------------------------------------------------------------

